Konekcija Server-Klijent preko - Local Naming Method

1. Podesiti inbound i outbound Windows firewall za pristup TCP na oba racunara:

To open a port in the Windows firewall for TCP access
On the Start menu, click Run, type WF.msc, and then click OK.

In the Windows Firewall with Advanced Security, in the left pane, right-click Inbound Rules, and then click New Rule in the action pane.

In the Rule Type dialog box, select Port, and then click Next.

In the Protocol and Ports dialog box, select TCP. Select Specific local ports, and then type the port number of the instance of the Database Engine, such as 1521 for the default instance. Click Next.

In the Action dialog box, select Allow the connection, and then click Next.

In the Profile dialog box, select any profiles that describe the computer connection environment when you want to connect to the Database Engine, and then click Next.

In the Name dialog box, type a name and description for this rule, and then click Finish.

2. Kopirati tnsnames.ora i sqlnet.ora iz servera sa lokacije:

oracle_home/product/network/admin

3. Paste tnsnames.ora i sqlnet.ora na client na lokaciju:

C:\app\Stefan-Ivan\product\11.2.0\client_3\network\admin

4. U cmd servera pingovati IP adresu na kojoj je klijent, komandom ping 192.xx.xx.xx

5. U cmd clienta pingovati IP adresu na kojoj je server, komandom ping 192.xx.xx.xx

7. Otvoriti prvi cmd na server racunaru i pokrenuti bazu podataka startup da bude, komanda startup 

8. Otvoriti jedan cmd na server racunaru i startovati listener preko komande lsnrctl start

9. U cmd clienta kucati komandu netca

10. Otvorice ce se Oracle Net Configuration Assistant i odaberemo Naming Methods configuration, next, Local Naming, next, next

11. Odaberemo Local Net Service Name Configuration, next Add, next a u Service Name upisemo ime baze: orcl, Host name upisemo ip adresu servera: 192.xx.xx.xx i neka ostane selektovano standardni port broj 1521 next, Yes perform test odabermo, next i onda ce prihvatiti, ako ne prihvati promeniti username i password od konekcije na koju zelimo da se zakacimo iz server baze, next, Net Service Name upisemo isto ime baze: orcl, next, odaberemo no, next, next, finish

12. U cmd client-a ukucamo komandu tnsping orcl

13. U cmd client-a ukucamo komandu da se ulogujemo kao sys server baze: sqlplus username/sifra@orcl as sysdba  

14. U cmd client-a ulogujemo se preko neke druge konekcije po zelji(primer): conn hr/hr@192.xx.xx.xx:1521/orcl

